[Music]
you do it to yourself you to that's what
really hard to do it to yourself just
you you were no one else do it to
yourself
do it to you
[Music]
let's just say hypothetically he met a
younger person told you they'd love to
be an actor but they just can't cope
with the auditioning process they love
acting but they hate auditions it causes
them anxiety causes them even to feel
suicidal and self-harm the stress the
scrutiny the rejection and you know you
got to go to 20 auditions 50 auditions
get rejected again and again before you
find that one rare opportunity to let
you get ahead as an actor right you're
talking to someone who thinks they'd
like to be an actor but they're wrong
the people who really want to be actors
the people who want to get ahead and
theater and film those are exactly the
people who can thrive on the rejection
they're the people who could get up and
go to audition again and again and again
and they're hungry for more those are
the people who are cut out for this
business those are the people who can
and will succeed and those the people
who will get stronger from failure it's
really misleading to articulate this
point in terms of either vice or virtue
what are the qualities you need to be a
surgeon one of them is a particular kind
of fortitude when you're faced with
blood and gore and human suffering and
anguish I don't think that makes you a
nice person other thing makes you a good
person if you have that characteristic
of remaining calm and indifferent when
you're looking at somebody's blood and
guts to be blunt but you may also be
seeing their suffering their anguish etc
but that's exactly the characteristic
you need to be a good surgeon right or
wrong virtue or vice doesn't matter what
kind of person can get on stage as a
stand-up comedian and entertain people
with either indifference or
maybe even contempt when the audience
doesn't find their Giovanni have a
certain kind of reckless self-confidence
or detachment
you want to think of it where they can
get up on stage and get rejected and
fail again and again again they still
want to pursue comedy doesn't really
matter if you think of it as a vice or a
virtue but this is a characteristic you
need to be a stand-up comedian in terms
of who I'd like to spend time with it's
probably not gonna be the sort of person
who's a naturally gifted surgeon nor the
sort of person who's a nationally gifted
stand comedian they're all kind of weird
and disturbing people to be around
frankly probably in part because they
have that strange detachment that let
them get ahead in their job at an early
stage and hey you've got to be skeptical
but the extent to which these
characteristics may be acquired we will
never have a statistic for how many
people show up at medical school and
feel anxious nervous nauseated and maybe
also feel kind of sorrow and sympathy
when they're looking at a person who's
been injured let's say injured in a car
accident
lying there suffering and blood and go
around or when they're in a surgical
theatre observing the process underway
person's skin being cut through blood
being exposed and so on we'll never have
a statistic for how many people show up
with those instincts and inclinations
and then just overcome them within a
couple of years they find they just
don't care anymore we'll never have a
statistic for a quick easy company
stand-up comedians manage to overcome
their sense of anxiety their sense of
vulnerability their sense of fragility
to proceed with a career in comedy but
we actually do have statistics for how
many people go to medical school and
then say they have to drop out because
they just can't cope with the blood with
the gore with the suffering with the
Sorrell and you know what I don't think
that makes you a bad person if you're
vulnerable in that way if you're fragile
in that way maybe that means you have
more capacity for sympathy maybe it's in
some sense a virtue but guess what this
job
a surgeon it ain't for you you don't
have the requirements this is not a
situation of you need to be cruel to be
kind
this is just an exclusively a form of
kindness if you have a friend who's
going out and trying to be a stand-up
comedian but every time he or she has a
bad night at the comedy club they come
home and they're self-harming they're
talking about suicide they're phoning
people up asking them to talk them out
of suicide where they're actually
attempting suicide don't be cruel to be
kind
just be kind sit down with your friend
and say stand-up comedy is not for you
you are not cut out for this you do not
have what it takes
doesn't matter if you think of it as a
vice or a virtue it's just a
characteristic you ain't God there are
red flags here that go deeper and
further than YouTube do you notice that
Rachel Rachel Oates she points the
finger across the internet to someone
who made mean comments on Twitter and
she asks do I deserve this do I deserve
self-harm do I deserve to be bleeding
because she cut herself and to have
uploaded this on the internet and to be
humiliated because she uploaded herself
there is a steadfast refusal on her part
to accept responsibility for any of her
decisions there's a reason why it's
called self-harm because you do it to
yourself what can we say to someone who
uploads a video of this kind a video of
what I would call attempted suicide I
don't know where you come from if you
slit your wrists or cut your arm open
and are bleeding and so on you've just
seen her description on screen I don't
know why it would be unreasonable to
describe that as a suicide attempt you
upload a video of yourself attempting
suicide then you receive more than
$3,000 in donation
and this is because you were in a
contest contest of the wills with
someone else in the internet who in fact
already played this same victim card
right I mean this is the other irony you
say I had to screen a second ago unlike
t I will never use my mental health
issues social issues or so harm as a
shield or a way to manipulate my
audience right but that is kind of what
ended up happening anyway right and you
got rewarded for it to the tune of more
than three thousand dollars so there's
something profoundly unhealthy going on
here we're in the year 2019 the internet
becomes a kind of fragility Olympics one
side of this debate
OTE essence of thought said oh well I'm
so fragile if this other person says
something transphobic or has a critique
of trans rights or something then that
could push me over the edge into suicide
at any given moment it could push me
back into self harming and it would be
that person's fault and Rachel comes
back playing the same victim card and
saying that she's spent her whole life
also teetering on the edge of suicide
also Teeter around the edge of self-harm
so she's even more fragile and then
pointing the finger at this trans rights
activist and saying your criticism of me
to quote her exactly quote unquote do I
deserve to be so harming do I deserve
this are we getting away from the fact
that as the song says you do it to
yourself you do it to yourself
[Music]
itself as you you would know what else
to do
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah
but the most toxic dangerous assumption
of all is that you can hurt yourself and
blame someone else for it okay I've been
through an unbelievably horrible divorce
and I've still got lawyers and I'm still
in court and it ain't over yet
and custody battle over how much time I
get a spill of the daughter it's
terrible
guess what if I commit suicide that's on
me an unbelievably horrible childhood
nobody can ever make it better
screwed up by it in all kinds of ways
guess what if I commit suicide that's on
me
nobody can be blamed you can't point the
finger at my ex-wife you can't point the
finger at my mom nobody can be blamed
but me Rachel Oates you're 26 years old
I think you're a victim of the same
ideology that leads to all these other
people getting on the internet and
trying to broadcast their fragility
they're broadcasting their fragility to
make money and gain social approval I
think you're a victim of the same
mentality as zoe quinn zoe quinn right
now trying to present herself as a
victim her ex-boyfriend committed
suicide because he lost his job and he
lost his job because of comments on the
internet zoe quinn made about what a bad
boyfriend he was and what car does zoe
quinn play she plays the victim card she
plays the fragility card he plays the
self-harm card she says she's got a
therapist and she's teetering on the
edge of suicide all the time anyway she
says she's the victim and whose fault is
it don't eat money now I think you're
playing the same game anisia niz playing
an isiand to this day presenting himself
as a victim in all of his interactions
woman an 18 year old girl he'd been
employing as his live-in babysitter
he gets sexually involved with her they
break up he kicks her out of the house
she's got to get her own apartment get
her own job
we have screenshots of
accusing her of rape he's a 33 year old
man and he was her employer and he's a
famous d-list celebrity on the internet
but we are to believe that this girl who
moved into his house at 16 and left at
18 that she raped him that he's the
victim all right we have a discourse
that's fixated on fragility and is
rewarding fragility and what we need to
get back to is the healthy detached
discourse about fortitude and the type
of fortitude were talking about here
it may not be a vice and it may not be a
virtue but some people have what it
takes to do stand-up comedy
some people have what it takes to be a
surgeon and some people don't
Rachel you produce garbage content on
YouTube the only content you got I can
respect is your content about makeup I
completely believe you've mastered the
art of makeup admittedly I'm an amateur
in that department however your
criticism of the book of Genesis is
garbage you're a 26 year old adult woman
anyone can find better by going to
Google Scholar and putting in a theists
critique of the book of Genesis anyone
the intellectual caliber and substance
and merit of your videos is terrible
okay and you've now put yourself in this
position where you criticize others of
course not just on transphobia and
translates it's a very minor issue of
your channel you're criticizing
fundamental social political and
religious issues but if people then
criticize you look at the games you play
sweetpea quit now because you're blaming
others when the fact is you do it to
yourself
to yourself just you you where no one
else do it to yourself
do it to you
[Music]